# CS401 Project Proposal
## Zachary Andrews, Devin Spitalny, Christian Lussier

# Bosco Language

After working with mini-programming languages such as Decaf and C0 throughout our time in CS401, we have found these toy languages to be quite interesting. As a result, for our final project we have decided to write our own mini programming language, "Bosco", as we think it will be quite fun and a good learning experience. "Bosco" will be a simple programming language that will come with a scanner and parser.

For this project, there are a variety of things that will be done on the technical side of things. To start, we will come up with a grammar, much like the ones we learned about in CS401, for our programming language. We will then move on to implementing the actual programming language. We will likely use Python to implement our language, but if necessary another language like Java or C++ could be used. After we have implemented our language, we will take steps to make sure that it works by creating some sample programs that function properly. Once we have implemented our working programming language with some sample programs, we will implement a scanner and a parser for our language. The created sample programs can be used to test the functionality of our scanner and parser.

When designing a language it is important to have the basic syntax, like whether or not it will be white space based, like python, or bracket based like Java. For the sake of simplicity we have decided to have our language be bracket based and use some character to denote the end of a statement. From here we will follow the tutorials mentioned below to first construct our grammar and then move along to build the scanner and parser.

There are a variety of resources available regarding the creation of a simple programming language. For example, there are many tutorials about making simple programming languages, such as a [freeCodeCamp tutorial](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/the-programming-language-pipeline-91d3f449c9196) that walks the reader through the process of making a language called "Pinecone". A tutorial such as this would likely be useful when we are learning about creating our own language. With this, the programming language this resource is describing is [open-source](https://github.com/wmww/Pinecone), which means we can reference it while following along. Additionally, there are a variety of toy programming languages that are available on GitHub that could provide information regarding our project, such as "Trumpy Script" which is a language based upon Donald Trump. Additionally, there are are a variety of materials regarding the construction of the grammar. We will follow what was said in this [StackOverflow Post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2320402/how-to-define-a-grammar-for-a-programming-language) and start with the more basic elements of the grammar and build up to the statements, functions, classes, etc.

There are many resources available when it comes to building programming language, as well as when it comes to scanning and parsing a language. Since we will likely be constructing this language in python we will likely use the PLY (Python Lex-Yacc) package to both scan and tokenize our language and then parse the language based on our designed grammar. This will give us the ability to use a single program to implement our entire language, cutting down on possible points of failure and complexity.

We believe building our own programming language, "Bosco", will be a fun and informative final project for CS401. We will build a simple-bracket based language and plan on defining a grammar, implementing a language, and then scanning and parsing this new language. There are many informative resources available when it comes to completing these tasks, meaning it should be feasible to complete this project.
